# Beautiful-Data-For-Beautiful-Game
NTU SC1015 (Intro Data Science and AI) Project by Syed Zaheen and Jayden Yeo. Lab DSF1 Group 3 

## About

This is a Mini-Project for SC1015 (Introduction to Data Science and Artificial Intelligence) which focuses on the English Premier League Dataset. For detailed walkthrough, please view the source code in order from:

1. [Data Preparation](https://github.com/SyedZaheen/Beautiful-Data-For-Beautiful-Game/blob/main/Data%20Preparation.ipynb)
2. [Problem Formulation 1, 2 and Data Visualisation](https://github.com/SyedZaheen/Beautiful-Data-For-Beautiful-Game/blob/main/Problem%20formulation%201%20and%20Exploratory%20Data%20Analysis.ipynb)
3. [Multivariate Linear Regression and Random Forest Classifer](https://github.com/SyedZaheen/Beautiful-Data-For-Beautiful-Game/blob/main/Multivariate%20Linear%20regression%20and%20random%20forest%20classifier.ipynb)
4. [Problem Formulation 3, Clustering and Feature Engineering](https://github.com/SyedZaheen/Beautiful-Data-For-Beautiful-Game/blob/main/Clustering%20and%20feature%20engineering.ipynb)


## Storyboard

- Our initial angle to the project was to find out which variables predicts number of goals scored the best. 
- We used multivariate linear regression to compare the coefficients of each of our variables used.
- However, our findings showed that, unsurprisingly, shots on targets predicts number of goals scored the best, and by a large margin too.
- We then adopted random forest classifier to determine if goals is best predicted as a numerical or categorical data type. Our findings showed that it was best predicted as a categorical data type.
- Unsatisfied with our findings, we hypothesized that there are certain playstyles (high possession - high shots taken, or low possession - low shots taken), that teams adopt, which lead to their success.
- We used K-means clustering and Birch clustering to determine the truthfulness of our hypothesis.
- Upon obtaining the clusters generated by the clustering algorithms, we feature engineered a new variable called "Shot Quality" to determine if our hypothesis holds.
- Our findings showed that teams that had high possession, touches and clearances also had higher shot quality.
- We found that the clustering algorithms generated clusters based on team performance rather than playstyle.


## Problem Formulation

1. Are we able to predict the number of goals scored
2. Which variables are most relevant in predicting goals?
3. Which playstyle results in a higher likelihood of success. 

## Models Used

- K-Means clustering
- Spectral clustering
- Birch clustering
- Linear regression
- Random forest classifier

## Conclusion

- Shots and Shots on Target have a high correlation with number of goals scored (unsurprisingly).
- Treating number of goals scored as a categorical variable and using the random forest classifier model lead to a higher accuracy in the prediction of goals.
- Teams that adopt a high possession, passing and touches are generally more successful.
- Teams who play a higher possession take better quality shots. 

## What did we learn from this project?

- Web scraping techniques
- Silhouette score and how to generate an optimal mnumber of clusters for centroid-based clustering
- Feature engineering: generating a new feature based on the results of linear regression


